SIMPLE QUERIES
Who is the Prime Minister of the UK?
(There is no such property. There is: leaderTitle which contains "Prime Minister", and then there is leaderName, which contains among the monarch "David Cameron". Go figure.)

Where was Tom Cruise born?
(Born is interpreted as a past tense form of to bear. Except my Oxford dictionary sais: "usage: Until the 18th century borne and born were simply variant forms of the past participle of bear, used interchangeably with no distinction in meaning. By around 1775, however, the present distinction in use had become established.")

When was Apple founded?
(dbpprop:foundation, foundingDate)

Through which countries runs the Rhine?

NEGATION
Which rivers flow through France?
Which rivers do not flow through France?
(Could be solved with:
SELECT ?nx1 WHERE {
  ?nx1 rdf:type dbpediaowl:River.
  ?nx1 ?rel ?nx0.
  ?x0 rdfs:label "France"@en.
  FILTER (?nx0 != ?x0)
}
)

Which countries do not border Mexico?
Which songs by the beatles were not played on radio? (ok, that information is not on dbpedia, but it would be nice to analyze corectly)

COMPARISON
What is the largest mammal?
Which band sold the most records?
Which country is bigger, Canada or China? (might be hard syntactically)
Who has directed the most movies starring Johnny Depp?

LISTS
Name all German film directors.
("German" is the hard part, because it is parsed exactly like "all". If I use lower case "german", it will parse it as if I was looking for directors of films of 'german'. Other, related problem: DBpedia does not say whether someone is german, but does have the type yago:GermanFilmDirectors. But that is not something I can easily deduce from the parse.)

List all states of America.

List all actors that played in a movie with Kevin Bacon.
List all actors that played in a movie starring Kevin Bacon.

MULTIPLE RELATIONS
Where did the wife of Barack Obama graduate?
How many inhabitants does the country that borders Mexico and Canada have?
Where was the inventor of the microwave born?

BLENDER
Who directed the most movies and won an Oscar?
